hey everybody this is Terry it is
February 6th and we're here with the
monthly proto school community call have
a bunch of folks with us oh I have to
push the Brady Bunch button so we can
see everybody's faces at once very
exciting yeah maybe just since we have
so many people on today we can just do
super quick intros I'm Terry I'm the
lead for the protocol project well flip
over to Jose yep hello
yeah I'm working on the website helping
as much as I can and yeah delivering as
much features as we possibly can to help
the authors and event organizers and etc
Fabia
I am five martinis
for those who weren't here before I'm
just a new TPM from Moxie they're
working at BL in the test ground team
and I've been on boarding process on the
side of the moxie and as well in the PL
I'm reading as much as I can of your
product and I'm my buddy on PL is Holly
Evans and he's is excellent onboarding
people and I'm really glad that I got a
chance to work with him and that's it
for now I'm just attending the most the
more the more zoom calls as I can thank
you thank you Jim Jim and a bill for a
while but I'm now on the file coin team
and I'm actually making the JavaScript
library so yes butter school does one
thing it would use the JavaScript
library so yep we could do both so right
now we could do like multiple-choice
lessons or text-based lessons on basic
concepts as we are and then once we have
the JavaScript version we can definitely
look at how to implement coding
tutorials on the brother so that's
awesome
dan hey I'm Dan shields I like to call
myself the cheerleader of all things
Colorado and blockchain cryptocurrency
and distributed web so I've done a few
proto school events here specifically
and in fact a week from today we're
running just decentralized network
summit and I have a whole bunch of
people coming out from ipfs and PL one
of the things I'd like to feature is a
little demo using for those cool
incentivize people to come out
especially for the event just after that
E is going on we got two thousand plus
people one of the missions that will
have people win experience points having
this gamified system it's doing producer
tutorial so I'm I'm excited to get some
more people using with awesome tools you
guys are making
I'm just in the discussion highlight
section at the bottom of today's notes I
just dropped a little note but feel free
to drop any links in there Dan um some
people can find them later about that
event cool so I am just looking on my
other screen here at our update so the
way this call works is we usually start
with updates in a variety of our key
focus areas so those are content
development and learner experience
otherwise known as user experience but
all of our users are learners and
community growth and then occasionally
we have some other odds and ends but
those are the ones for today so to get
us started just say do you want to chat
about these two coming soon the things
in the content development area yeah so
as of right now we're working on the new
tutorial for that explains in in depth
like the description of how a CID
usually works in our ipfs uses it to
identify the contents so we actually go
through we picks up that's all from from
Allen that I did on the cameras here and
he did a very good explanation on it so
we use infographics as well so it's very
detailed and yeah so it will guide you
through all of the the version 0 and
version 1 of CID if they're basically
letlet to explain like lets you
understand how the version 1 for example
came about to me um yeah so the next
thing also we were looking forward to it
would be DM so we have more her asset um
so when when you build a tutorial on on
the on the on the platform you actually
need to run code now we're unfortunately
so we're trying to reduce the amount of
code that you actually need to not write
but in a sense of boilerplate kind of
development let's copy and pasting work
exactly so
trying to reduce that as much as we can
so basically our automating some stuff
so that will come into play very soon
we're just just about to merge EPR and
we also have some other plans in the
future but for now this is to do
basically for example now you'll be able
to create a tutorial and you won't need
to specify the routes of the the
tutorials will just generate them
automatically you don't need to go into
the in this case the application is on
v-j so you don't need to go into routing
and the vgs application so it'll be more
some things will be more automatic and
we're working or working under solutions
as well to improve some automation as
well to make the authors experience a
little bit better yeah it's that's super
cool and those of you who've been around
for a while know that do go and I
updated a lot of the documentation about
authoring tutorials a while back so
there's and recently I added a guide on
designing effective tutorials so Jim
this might be of interest to you for
example so now if you go to the builds
page on our website you can find links
to both of those guides for designing
and developing tutorials and they go
walk through things step by step and as
soon as we merge this PR those
instructions will get even simpler with
one of those steps removed so it's
exciting oh the other thing I should
mention about that anatomy of the cid
tutorial is that it will be we've had
under the hood for a while the ability
to make multiple-choice tutorials but we
haven't actually use it yet so this will
be our first multiple-choice tutorial
and we are all prepped up with exciting
icons and such for that yeah um
now Zane the next one is your work but I
have it loaded up on my screen to show
people so you can tell us about the next
one and I can do a little demo here
[Music]
okay so I am in the last lesson of a
tutorial that I've otherwise finished
what they did so now when you actually
finish the tutorial you can get a nice
congratulations popup on ye yes and also
a links where you can share the your
accomplishment on Twitter hopefully this
will drive some some traffic and so
people can actually get into the sherry
the Constance again what people into the
tutorial yeah yeah we've actually seen
people already using this share feature
which is awesome so great great way to
drive some more traffic that's great and
then next step oh this one's exciting
too okay so this is already launched
this is live we notice this yesterday on
the website you will now find some handy
little icons so we have an icon that
means this is just text we found in our
metrics that we had some drop off some
of these tutorials like maybe the first
lesson is text base but then you realize
it's a bunch of JavaScript phony
challenges and if you don't code or
you're very unfamiliar with JavaScript
to be like oh and run away so then the
stats were showing that so you want to
make it very easy to identify upfront
what these are made of here and if you
look at all of our tutorials on this
page now so you see when it when the
page loads it has all of our content
here regardless of the format and this
symbol for the tutorial as a whole is
representing the hardest content that
exists within there but we have this
little toggle now so you can stop
including the coding tutorials and just
see the stuff that you can access
without coding skills so we think this
is going to be super helpful for some of
the folks who are just trying to get the
concepts down in - few developers we
want to serve them also and then we have
an issue open right now that I'm going
to attempt to tackle which would um so
the caching on this site so the way it
knows that I've passed these lessons is
all in local storage so if I come from a
different browser it won't work but we
just kind of assume people are probably
using the same browser so we don't need
to do anything with a login or anything
like that but one of the things that we
could potentially catch
is that this toggle status so if it
seems like there's someone who doesn't
want to see the coding stuff we can just
leave it hidden and they can always
toggle it back later the other thing I
thought we might be able to do is we
might be able to pass a parameter in the
URL that would start it hidden so I
could give people URL to use to have the
page load with them hidden essentially
pretty useful so I'll poke around and
see if that's also possible whenever fun
that um so this is super exciting this
is one of those things that comes out of
both user feedback and the metrics we
have so oh end thanks to Agatha who made
our little icons there's our little
resources our little book for the
reading ones we have our code one and
then after we publish the anatomy of a
CID you'll get to see our multiple
choice one so those are awesome all
right next up mmm what do we have oh
yeah so we have mentioned this on past
files but it finally merged and this is
one of those things that we hope you
will never see but the way that error
handling works in proto school is a
little bit complicated because sometimes
errors come from you forgetting a
semicolon in the code that you write and
sometimes it comes from us forgetting to
predict that you might do a thing wrong
that we didn't imagine you do wrong and
sometimes something happens within ifs
or you look for a CID that doesn't exist
on network um so Alex Platt Sita is
actually put in a put in a PR to help
identify those errors under the hood
figure out where they're coming from
treat them differently
Jill while he was on our team added to
that PR and and made it so we could kind
of stop some timeouts in their tracks if
it looks like this the idea just doesn't
exist on the network and then the other
thing that we did is make it so in a
case where the problem is our own code
like the validation code is buggy we
have a way that you can just
automatically put in an issue it says
this is a validation error and here is
the code that was filled in in my
browser at the time that I encountered
it and that'll help us diagnose so
that's a really cool thing that Jill
finished up before he left that's
awesome
and he
also just fix some color contrast issues
in our buttons that someone had called
up for us China tried to be as
accessible as we can as we go along and
then we have a new contributor named
Carl who's from Europe I'm forgetting
what country he's from who popped into
the repo having just come an experienced
Pro to school for the first time it made
a lot of great great suggestions and
putting PRS to fix typos and fix it
markdown rendering issue and put that
decentralized data structures right at
the beginning because he saw it was kind
of a prereq for some of the other
content so he's done a lot and gave us
some feedback on the anatomy of the CIE
a tutorial it's always awesome to see me
people popping in and then along those
lines one of the things that I just did
recently Oh Oh a zoom thing and I get
under you okay one of the things I did
recently is just made some text updates
to our contribute host and build pages
here just to make it a little more clear
some of this information was buried in
github but just highlighting the ways
that you can contribute from hosting
events building tutorials just sharing
questions in feedback you could be
watching the issue queue so sometimes
when someone asks a question sometimes
when they have a problem with a tutorial
it is the tutorials felt like we didn't
explain something clearly enough and we
should fix it or we have a coding issue
and sometimes it's just that it's kind
of an introductory question and we end
the thing we should do is just help them
by teaching them about ipfs so people
can watch the issues there and help with
that and look for those issues that are
raised on specific tutorials and submit
PRS to fix them all of that stuff
there's also a little bit of information
here for people who aren't used to
collaborating on github so there are
lots of things that people can do like
fixing typos or making instructions more
clear even if they don't have coding
skills but sometimes folks who haven't
who aren't developers or have worked in
a company that doesn't use github are
less familiar with github so I added a
few little links to some introductory
material about how github works to help
people contribute and then the rest of
this was already here and on that build
page you'll see I believe you'll now see
links
to both the designing effective
tutorials and the detailed instructions
for building tutorials so Jim that's a
great place for you to start if you want
to start chatting through an idea on the
protocol side um so some updates there
and then I copied the code of conduct
over I was looking at the github one day
told me that we we're not supporting our
community because we don't have a code
of conduct in like well we do have a
co-defendant have it in that repo so I
copied that took up places so and then I
just wanted to give you kind of a sneak
preview of some work in progress here
and ask for your help particularly the
chapter leaders like Dan out there um
this is all still a work in progress but
we realize it is work that we cannot
finish without your help so we're hoping
to add specific event listings to our
website right now you see chapter
listings for groups like dance that
present protocol content over time but
in order to find an event near you you
would have to say ok I live in Denver I
see that there's chapter in Denver click
there go to the github repo and then
figure out where Dan is sharing his
postings whether that's issues in his
repo or a link out to meetup site where
he shares them that varies a little bit
from chapter to chapter so we want to
make it a little bit easier for
attendees to find the upcoming content
and give people a place to kind of
highlight their work so Josie and I have
been working together on a new events
display that will have upcoming events
listed and for this particular feature
of the events that so some of our
chapters offer a lot of great content
over time like they might have an idea
fest meetup and some weeks they have a
speaker come in and talk about something
and some weeks they go through one of
the produce cool tutorials in person so
for this website feature in particular
we'll just be looking at the events
where you're featuring a proto school
tutorial is your main content so those
are the ones that you could submit to be
included here and and you'd check off
boxes to tell us which tutorials are
going to be featured so we can let
people know if you run a group over time
that offers other events we can include
lynx-o people can go learn more about
your group um Kevin and Molly actually
presented an event at the web three
summit in Berlin this year so we also
have the option to say this event is
being hosted at a conference so either
of those and then we will ask you to
give us the link to your code of conduct
so we can help surface that for everyone
and then we'd have a little button that
just takes people to the listing for
your site wherever that is whether you
keep it on a meetup page or an issue in
your chapter repo or whatever it is um
so just looking this is lovely we have
most of the UI set up to make this
possible but these are all fake events
that we have an assistant right now and
we need some upcoming events to add um
so in this there's a link to here from
the meeting notes but this is an issue
in our organizing repo so just some
notes on what kinds of events qualify to
submit here so you should it should give
learners the opportunity to work through
one of our tutorials in person support
that should have a code of conduct
that's aligned with our global code of
conduct and there are if you haven't
been to it there's a resources page in
the organizing repo that has links to
some really useful background on why
code of conduct are important and some
templates if you if you haven't already
dealt with that issue before the
eventually be educational not commercial
or promotional and should be not for
profit so for your low cost to attendees
so if your event meets those guidelines
then there's a link right here to a
forum where you can submit it um so we'd
love your help getting those in the
queue I can't make a guarantee about
exactly when this PR will launch it will
depend on when we get those events in so
apologies in advance if you submit a
super soon coming event and we don't get
that merged in time but we do need that
event to populate the database and we
also are planning to show and some
recent past events so that will give
another way for people to find your
group at least even after your event
passes so that's that and there's a link
to where you can make those submissions
or excited to release that PR hopefully
in the near future and we'll keep you
posted
no more about timing hmm see what else
we have here for you oh and then I have
one other open issue that's looking for
a volunteer so one of the things we'd
like to do is create written
documentation on what it looks like so
take a tutorial from our website and
turn it into an in-person live
experience do I need one mentor per 10
people in the room what you know what
what do I actually do to make this work
and we do have issues that are
discussions where our chapter leaders
are sharing what has worked well for
them and what hasn't and we have a
resources page but just some written
guidance to kind of help people
understand the best practices that are
involved in that so this will be
specifically about running you know
running one particular event that uses
our tutorial as its content not about
how do I run and successful meetup over
time or about how do I run any event
with any talk about IPSS that
specifically about how you use our
content to create an event so we're
looking for a volunteer to work on this
ideally it would be someone who has done
this in their chapter but a lot of our
leaders are super busy and there are
some resources that you can use to get
started dan who's here and Kevin and
Stefan actually gave a talk that's very
related at ipfs camp that covers a bit
of this plus some other broader contacts
so honing in from there into the
specific issue and building on that and
then there's the discussion thread I
mentioned I'm planning your first event
and a resource page can all be useful so
if anyone would like to volunteer to
jump in on that it could also be a
couple of folks teaming up to share
their opinions or giving feedback on on
each other's ideas that would be awesome
and I think whoo nice job adding to the
agenda did alright I am going to stop
sharing any questions on the stuff that
Josie and I just mentioned
all right so Dan what would you like to
talk to us about that you haven't
already mentioned anything if you're
talking you're on you yes I mentioned
that briefly actually I might just have
some questions about we're talking about
the events the dummy ones that you have
available those are not alive right
those are fake fake and not on the
website so one thing you could put up if
we hustle is these two events the
decentralized networking summit and eek
tender because those are both really
eccentric around this the summit most of
all because it's specifically mostly ifs
based but with that in mind then yes I
guess we're thinking about slotting in a
dedicated actual session to highlight
mention it and lead to it Denver
specifically have people work on
protocol as I think I mentioned these
missions didn't say you're at the event
we have a gamified system to help you
interact and do glamping and so this
will be one of them is complete a
tutorial and I think the requirement
will be you have to tweet now that
that's available oh I like it
you tweeted the thing then you get the
points so traffic that's a great idea I
was just gonna ask how you were gonna
prove that they did it but that's a
perfect plan yeah so this is a case
where you might want to use both of
those fields so if this is if I'm
presenting this correctly so if for
example it word that I the Denver ipfs
meetup that is kind of sponsoring this
things presents at each Thunder you
could say hosted by ipfs Denver at eath
Denver or something like that to kind of
show the colocation and that's part of
at the same time and I wasn't positive I
had been looking around to see if people
had upcoming events scheduled and I
wasn't positive whether you were
actually doing
workshops in there but do you feel free
to submit that using that form and feel
free to reach out to me separately if
there's something that's confusing about
the form so we can keep improving that
as we go I've put in a couple of past
events that we'll be able to have loaded
in the system where I'm positive that
people use that model but we don't have
upcoming ones to show yes we have a
couple of other what what's the date
that that would be Dan the 13th and 14th
through 16th the summit's on 13 okay so
I would say put it in I have a couple of
conversations with people here next week
that will determine whether we're able
to to get it live that quickly I'm not
positive but it would be really useful
to have the data in there even like I
say if it ends up in the pass events
data moving forward I'd really
appreciate that and you've been doing a
you're a perfect example of someone who
teaches a ton of different content
including producible we're hoping that
this model will be great to surface when
you are doing a proto school and kind of
bring some bring some exposure to the
group in general through that so
potentially yes so you mentioned that
you did some really interesting work
around exposing like if you couldn't
find something like a Festivus
effectively a bug or something was
missing on your end versus the user did
something wrong and sounds really
awesome and extensible to many different
decentralized applications so how
portable is that do we think is it
something that other web sites that are
using IP FS integrations could
potentially leverage or learn from I
don't I don't think so in Jersey I don't
know how deep you've been into it so
tell me if you think I'm wrong but it's
really like it's so specific I think
it's pretty specific to our use case
because we have both like the validation
code that we write says okay I predict
that Terry is going to screw up and not
use rap with directory true so I'm going
to put a you know if I see this result
it will be an indicator
she did that and then I'll give an error
that says hey did you forget to use rap
with directory true but what's actually
happening in that case is I'm getting an
error from ipfs it has some words that
are less useful and because they don't
know ipfs itself doesn't know what I was
trying to do we know because of the
context of exercise what you're trying
to do so we know that that error message
that comes back from campus in this case
means you forgot that so then we
translate it into our own language so
that's one kind of thing where it's us
writing stuff in the validation code um
and then there are things like just the
endless time out within ipfs but I don't
think in there are different places just
the way all the code works together
there are reasons that we can identify
like the error happened within this
function that is the validation code we
wrote for this particular lesson or it
happened within this function that is
the stuff we're doing under the hood I
don't think it would be super applicable
to other places unfortunately but we did
talk to Allen recently and they are
working on some updates we're actually
gonna be updating our that override
thing that I just described where we
make an error message better we're gonna
fix it so that it's depending on error
codes which are still text-based not
numbers that are more stable then the
message is the IP FS presents so we're
gonna be fixing that um and then there's
a lot of work happening right now this I
guess this is another thing that should
be on kind of the coming soon page of
our notes is you can see on the ipfs
blog right now a posts from Alan about
this upcoming and async/await
adaptation of JSI PFS and the way that
that changes things under the hood means
that if you don't if you do just the
standard add or cat somebody interrupts
me when you think i go
this if you use a door cat now it's
gonna return a stream by default instead
of what it was which was I think gather
up all of the results and then give them
to you so that's gonna change the way
some things work there I don't know if
it'll it may play out and have some of
the error codes or if I'm not positive
but we are going to be going back
through our existing tutorials and
updating the content to up to match the
new the new API how that works with
those commands so I'll actually go and
find that blog post we can add a link
here but that's something that people
who are interested in ideas should keep
an eye out for which will affect our
content I think unfortunately the answer
to your question and it's know it's
probably not it's probably pretty
specific to the way that our code base
works and not something that's very
portable definitely I think in the
future it'd be really cool to see if you
do have things there chunked out like
that would be fantastic to the liver as
content for more advanced users is like
yeah because you'll need that to develop
robust apps is fail-safes injecting yeah
so here's chat taken two pieces here and
in the meeting notes that's that blog
post I mentioned about the async away
refactor and the meeting notes um like I
was about to say something else no idea
so that's uh that's the latest from cool
thank you for your thank you anonymous
hippo for your additional notes in there
whoever is taking notes I appreciate
my cool thank you everyone and Jim yeah
anytime that you want to connect and
chat more about Falcone content I'm
happy to I've been chatting also a
little bit with Ava about some
preliminary stuff we could do about
conceptual just like how mining works or
what some of those underlying concepts
that we could do very easily in text or
multiple-choice format so lots of good
stuff coming up all right
great to see everybody and we do this
call typically the first Thursday of the
month so there's a github issue that you
probably you may have found us through
and where we just send out kind of
recaps from these and then we store all
of our you can see our meeting notes
here but we also store them and github
you can go back and watch any of these
recordings or check out notes from past
calls there so you will share all of
those links after the call and hope to
see you next month thanks everybody
thank you bye bye
Fergus